Hey what's up guys.
Welcome to this lesson.
Well I'll start by saying this is an optional lecture.
It's purpose is to teach you how to install a local server on your computer.
So if you already know what a local server is you're ready work with that.
If you already know how to install one you can skip this lesson with no problems.
Firstly why do you need a local server.
A lot of people ask me this question.
Well the common practice in the web development world is that you have separate environments for production
and development the production environment will be where the work will be public which in the case of
web development would be a hosting service for example whatever the scenario is I think it's always
better to develop our solutions locally and only after it's ready.
Send everything out to a production server where your application will be available to everyone.
There are some reasons for this such as saving hosting bandwidth avoiding unnecessary use of server
memory resources etc..
If you don't have to worry about it it's OK.
Another reason is that it's better to fail in a development environment than in a production environment.
Imagine if you install a plug in or make an application that breaks your Web site.
If you do this on the production server it's done you'll have to make up lost ground and as soon as
possible.
But if this happens on a local server you have time to analyze any kind of error that may have occurred.
So that's what we're going to do in this course.
Initially install our local server than WordPress on top of it and at the end of the course of teach
you how to send the whole project to a remote web server of your choice.
So let's get started.
There are several choices for installing a local server.
Basically you need not only the server which in our case would be Apache but you also need some applications
to manage your database and the language library itself.
So more advanced users install all of these features separately but there's no need for that.
As we can install a package that can manage the Apache server in my secret database and HP in this lesson
you'll be using one of these packages called ZAHM.
Some people also pronounce it exempt.
So let's head over to the Zahm Web site which is at the w w w dot Apache friends got all R.G.
and here on the home page we see this information saying that Zahm is the most popular HP development
environment that we can easily install.
The Apache server with Mario D-B which is equivalent to my sequel and HP itself.
This is exactly what we need.
One of the advantages of Zap is that it is multi-platform.
I mean you can stall it on any operating system.
As I am using a Mac I am going to download the Mac version but if you use Windows for example you see
that the steps for installing are not that different.
The way in my opinion the configuration of the Zahm environment in Windows is even easier.
Let's go ahead.
For this lesson I'm not going to download the default VM installer.
I don't know why but the VM virtual machine version is not working on my computer so I just download
the regular installer.
I'm going to click here and choose another version.
Now scroll down to see all options from Mac.
If you use another class you could also choose another version here on this page.
I can choose between the PSP versions when you use Beach B-7 I can use one of these options here.
In my case I'm not going to download the file again as I have done this previously.
Am going to access my downloads folder Doubleclick the installation file
Doubleclick the application I can
and click on open enter my password
and I'll just Brissy the installation process.
Next next next I can uncheck this checkbox here next next.
And now the installation begins.
Now from here I can already launch their application or open it later if I want you going uncheck this
option here and click on finish now I can go ahead and fire symp
enter my password again.
And here I have the application main screen here I can choose to start and stop all the servers.
For example the Apache web server or the Mystikal database server I can even start all at once by clicking
on this button.
And here it can also configure the Apache server or my sequel but this will be useful if you have a
problem or if you want to do some more advanced configuration by the way in the next lesson which is
not to go lecture you'll learn how to make one of these settings.
For now we have a fully functional development environment to check if everything is really working.
I start all of the servers here at once.
Go ahead and click this button.
Start all
and let's go back to your browser.
And type in here localhost is Lesch dashboards.
If you can't see the screen it means that installation is working.
If you're not seeing that first Jack if the Apache server has started it has to be green.
And with the running status you can also check if there is an error message under the application log.
If there are any errors you'll see them here and you can have an idea of what is happening.
OK you access the database manager.
Just go to look at host forward slash BHB my admin
and you see the screen here.
This is VERY be creating your database to install WordPress For example OK.
One more information before we leave for the next lesson.
All the projects we create on our local server by default will have to be created inside the Zahm 80
Docs folder to find it.
You can open your file manager applications Zahm 80 docs in Windows.
This directory is in C Zahm 80 dogs for a project.
For example we be creating a folder called W.P. later on all your other projects can also be created
here with different names of course.
In other words you access your project you just type in the browser the word localhost followed by the
name of the created directory.
For example localhost forward slash.
That would be great.
But you understand that better in practice in the next lessons I hope you find this lesson useful and
see you in the next lesson.
Until then.